They survivors focused on survival, each individual, family, network, pledging allegiance to warlords with the resources they needed to survive. If the warlords demanded they fight in war, they go to war, if they demanded construction, they build, if they demanded them to farm, they farm. 

The original blood rulers, such as the Datus and the Rajas lost power to the warlords. The warlords won power through varying means. 
- One of the farmers schemed with the other farmers. They started hoarding their food and stopped submitting to their traditional ruler. They then demanded allegiance if they want food, first enticing the hungry military, then the people. The former farmer then became a warlord, in charge of all who pledged allegiance to him. (Let's call this pathway 1)
- One of the engineers in a different kingdom schemed with other builders. They built a house of their own, promising the datu that it will be his in his glory. They were given the wealth, food, and manpower to finish it. They build swing bridges too. They let some of the archers in on their plan. When they finished, they turned and said that if they want in, they have to surrender their current tree palace to them and pledge their allegiance to him. They also sabotaged their supply lines, so out of desperation, they obliged. (This happened twice to two different kingdoms). (Let's call this pathway 2)
- Military leaders rallied his loyal forces under his banner and did a coup d'etat (Let's call this pathway 3)
- Another was a revolutionary that rallied the people, and eventually the army against the greedy and hoarding bloodline elites (Let's call this pathway 4)
- Charismatic leaders also unified multiple tribes and he became their leader, moving resources efficiently and putting labor where it needs to be put (Let's call this pathway 5)
- Some of the bloodlines were able to hold onto power (Let's call this pathway 6)

It eventually became customary for warlords to name the land after themselves, and to name the people in it after it. This because families are broken due to the wars and the aswang. If the people swore allegiance, it's sort of their way of branding the people it rules. When someone is born, their last name will be that of the dominion they're born in. 

Many years later, one of the dominion were defeated, they escaped with what they have left to the waters. After they washed up ashore after a violent storm, they hid in caves for refuge, they stumble onto [[Dakkan]]. The Rajah of the fallen dominion wanted revenge and a chance of control over the warring dominions of the trees, so he made a plan. He navigated back and with the help of his elite force of [[Aklasi]], he spread rumors and planted false evidence of an ancient tool that captures sunlight and allows it to be released at night time, thwarting off the Aswang. 

The rumor also stated that they're all hidden deep in the underground and they may be activated randomly sometimes. He knew that the Alimyo didn't discover gunpowder yet, unlike them at Dakkan and the Sulong tribe (which they didn't come into contact yet). 

Then while the falsehood of this rumor was being argued on, one night, a massive flash of light happened in the middle edge of the island of dense forest. It was loud and blinding. The factions knew that even if it's false, the not so slim now chance that it was real, if wielded by a single faction, they would have immense power. They could thwart the aswang away just from themselves, and develop way faster than under the oppression of the aswang; even food would be more abundant thanks to access to night and the forest floor at all times, meaning their numbers (and soldiers) would sky rocket. Individuals, families, even networks would pledge their allegiance to them because they're the only ones who can gaurantee safety from the aswang, making all the other warlords obsolete and relatively powerless. 

Each of the factions knew that they all saw the light blast (since it happened at 2:30 am, when everyone was still awake at night), and they knew what they were all planning. Most actually already took the blast itself as undeniable proof of the existence of the legendary artifact that stores sunlight. The former Rajah only made large scale fireworks using the pyrotechnics he learned in Dakkan, but something went wrong and it all went off at once, creating a single massive blast. The former Rajah's goal is to bait all of the warring dominions of the trees into a bloody war, and when they're all too weak after fighting each other, he'll march with his force and take over it all. The former Rajah kept the warring state of the tree's existence and location secret from the other Dakkanites because he thought that they might take over the warring states themselves, wasting all his effort for a conquest he wanted to get all for himself. He didn't know that Dakkan is magnitudes weaker and smaller than even a single major dominion in the trees at the time period. 

The scouts that managed to return after such a journey (only 4 out of a squad of 52 on average among the dominions were sent out) told them about the crator created. They mentioned grey ash litered on the crator. This confirmed the existence of the artifact to these dominions. Sending digging parties was far too risky, because staying out there for too long is almost certain death. They knew that they had to expand their territories slowly and surely, so the digging and mining parties have a steady flow of supplies, sustainance, and fortified shelter. They knew that whoever controlled that mine, effectively controlled the entire forest.

The explosion kick started the [[Warring Dominions Period]]