The Sugbu forces are marching into the territory of the [[Maktan Dominion]]. The forces of the [[Maktan Dominion]] did tactical attacks and the forces of the [[Sugbu Dominion]] forces were pushed back. The [[Maktan Dominion]] forces chased the running [[Sugbu Dominion]] forces and pushed into the their own territory. After facing the defeating battles the warlord of the Sugbu dominion, Datu Humadapnon Sugbu, asks for help from the [[Limasawa Dominion]]. The Limasawa agree, if only they give their most popular and more revered [[Babaylan]] as hostage. 

The [[Maktan Dominion]] got tipped by their [[Aklasi]] about the plan for alliance, they intercepted the route of the [[Babaylan]] and took her as their own hostage. The [[Maktan Dominion]] told the [[Sugbu Dominion]] that if they don't cancel their alliance with the [[Limasawa Dominion]], they'll kill their most revered [[Babaylan]]. The [[Sugbu Dominion]] tell them to kill their [[Babaylan]], if they do, it shows their commitment to their allegiance with the [[Limasawa Dominion]]. The [[Maktan Dominion]] didn't know what to do, so they just locked her up in one of their prisons. 

While Humadapnon Sugbu just finished his drills and was just about to eat dinner in a tree fortress, a plank of the roof got loose and collapsed under the weight of a [[Manananggal]]. Hordes more came in and massacred the inhabitants of the tree fortress. After hearing the screaming, a soldier of the [[Maktan Dominion]] thought it was a suprise attack. He broke protocol and opened a small window in their tree fortress to check, only for him to be spotted by an airborne aswang. It soared through the air to his direction, the soldeir slammed the window shut and was helped by other soldiers closing it. Before they can latch on the reinforcing lock, it bursted open. The head of the [[Maktan Dominion]] was eaten alive. 

After the death of the head of the [[Maktan Dominion]], the [[Maktan Dominion]] went into disarray. The [[Limasawa Dominion]] took this oppurtunity and invaded their tree fortresses, encroaching back into their territory. They eventually reached deep into their territory and seiged one of their most important tree fortresses. The [[Limasawa Dominion]] said that they'll let them live if they release the [[Babaylan]] and surrender the tree fortress to them. The ones in the [[Maktan Dominion]] tree fortress agreed and retreated back. The [[Babaylan]] was fed [[Limasawa Dominion]] propaganda. She gets sent back to the [[Sugbu Dominion]] and does rituals for the soldiers. She even gave tactical advice to the new ruler of the [[Sugbu Dominion]], based on her careful observation of her captors. 

The [[Maktan Dominion]] are feeling the pressure of the combined [[Sugbu Dominion]] and [[Limasawa Dominion]] forces closing into their capital. The new leader of the [[Sugbu Dominion]], Tupas Sugbu showed his strategic prowess, tearing through the fortresses. Both reach the last fortress, one more before they finally finish off their greatest rival, and bouldoze on to take the land of salvation. 

The [[Sugbu Dominion]] and [[Limasawa Dominion]] are resting and drinking in the tree fortresses they've conquered. The [[Maktan Dominion]] are preparing for a last deperate defense. The elders advised Lapulapu to hide or to defend to stretch out the time they have. But he knows that it they'd just be loosing slowly, he'd rather take the thousand to one shot. The [[Babaylan]], Nayawa Maktan, had an idea and asked him to talk in secret. After talking with her, he gathers the few hundred men he has left and gives them a construction project. They played loud music, banged their percusions, and sang as loud as they can, nearing dusk. The [[Limasawa Dominion]] and the [[Sugbu Dominion]] had many theories, from it being them bluffing that they have a trap, to them crying out in prayers. It was barely even a threat to them, so they let it play out.
 
When the next morning came, the [[Limasawa Dominion]] march forward, only come in them see the tree fortress empty, besides datu Lapulapu sleeping in one of the many empty beds. When he awakened, he looked around and was absolutely distrought. The soldiers and their leader who spotted him were laughing hard at the man who looked like he lost his will to live. They were laughing that not even loyalty of his soldiers was with him. The leader wanted to take him back as a trophy to embarrass and to raise the morale of their people. He was taken prisoner and got locked up. They celebrated and drank in the fallen capital. The soldiers were ecstatic they didn't even put any effort and no one died. Their faith in their leaders grew. 

Just before sun set, Lapulapu's forces poured in the surrounding conquered tree fortresses, including the prison Lapulapu was held at. They took over and sweeped through their fortresses while their enemies were drunk and relaxed. It was a bloodbath. It was so sudden that the leader in the capital fortress (that's connected to the surrounding fortresses the forces of [[Maktan Dominion]] are taking back) thought it was just his own men being rowdy and told them to be queit. When the sun set, a loud instrument played, then a boulder was seen dropping, and the whole half of the capital fortress fell. The boulder was set up with a pulley system to a the half of the tree fortress (which they also weakened). The [[Maktan Dominion]] used the sounds of thier singing and instruments to drown out the noises of construction. The eilte fighting forces, the [[Aklasi]] cut the bridges to the capital off too. When the sun fully submerged, the forces of the [[Maktan Dominion]] rushed and closed all their windows and doors, they threw the dead bodies they can under the time limit off the fortresses, the soldiers and leader of the [[Limasawa Dominion]] was left defenseless against the hordes of aswang. The aswang tear through their armies. When morning came, the reserved forces of the [[Limasawa Dominion]] stationed in [[Maktan Dominion]] territory panicked at the loss of their leader and scattered and fleed. They were cut down by the [[Maktan Dominion]]. This force was everything they had, they thought they would march into the land of salvation with this army. The surrounding dominions after hearing about this, all take over and carve up the fortresses of the [[Limasawa Dominion]].  

The Baybaylan advisor Nayawa Maktan becomes one of the official and even the top advisor of Lapulapu

The [[Sugbu Dominion]] who were stationed in one of the surrounding fortresses knew where the wind was blowing, and they sided with the [[Maktan Dominion]].