The [[Tasinulok Dominion]] however asked the [[Maktan Dominion]] for help, because an invasion of the forces of the [[Parisunggan Dominion]]. To get there, the [[Maktan Dominion]] has to cross the territory of the [[Tasinulok Dominion]] to get to the [[Parisunggan Dominion]]. After they marched their forces across, and reached the territory of the [[Tasinulok Dominion]], it started the betreyal wars. 

The soldiers of the [[Parisunggan Dominion]] ambush the back rank of the [[Maktan Dominion]]. More soldiers of the [[Parisunggan Dominion]] march in, when the [[Maktan Dominion]] forces saw this, they tried going for a tactical retreat. But they were cut off by the [[Tasinulok Dominion]] and they betrayed the [[Maktan Dominion]]. A war of two sides was held, the two enemy forces closing in and encircling the [[Maktan Dominion]] soldiers who are far from their home base at the land of salvation. They are outnumbered, their supply lines are in ruins, and their numbers were dwindling. 

Lapulapu Maktan and his soldiers fight bravely. But it wasn't enough, under heavy arrow fire, Lapulapu Mactan take a desperate gamble and convert some of the tree forces into boats and sail back. The soldiers insisted he go first, but he ordered his men to go first, including [[Nayawa Maktan]]. Just before the sun set, they were able to build the last boat, letting Lapulapu and the last 70 of his men sail back to their base in the land of salvation. However the hordes of aswang emerged and some of them saw the threat, and they started rowing frantically to be as far from the shoreline as possible. They were down to their last arrows and barely was able to take out the airborne aswang swooping towards them. The farther they are from the shoreline, the less likely they could be attacked. They've sailed for days, his men were starving and sleep deprived. They were spotted by a sail ship far away. At first they thought it was an enemy, but seeing the size of the incoming ship, they knew that even if it was, they couldn't escape its speed nor fight back. The ship eventually reached them, the people were from [[Sulong]] (which they still didn't come into contact or known about yet). The people of [[Sulong]] gave them extra supplies and food. 

Lapulapu Maktan was thankful and they said that they were under their debt, but before they could make offerings and deals for repayment, they declined repayment and the people of [[Sulong]] went back on their way. 

When Lapulapu Maktan and his 70 men came back, they spent 2 months rallying. They've eventually gotten enough men and brought his [[Sugbu Dominion]] allies to fight with him. With their combined forces, they march in with their combined forces and they push through, reaching the main fortresses of the [[Tasinulok Dominion]]. The [[Tasinulok Dominion]] ally [[Parisunggan Dominion]] forces backed them up. Lapulapu Maktan swtiched told the [[Sugbu Dominion]] to swap places with them, so they face they can face the trecherous [[Tasinulok Dominion]] themselves, while the [[Sugbu Dominion]] can handle the [[Parisunggan Dominion]]. The [[Maktan Dominion]] forces, already weakened months before, are dwindling in numbers. They were pushed back meter meter by meter. Lapulapu Maktan was almost cut down by a soldier behind him, but he was saved by his men. The [[Sugbu Dominion]] forces were doing even better, after defeating the [[Parisunggan Dominion]], they detach a quarter, and they smash into the [[Tasinulok Dominion]]. Both forces eventually won. The [[Sugbu Dominion]] after gaining more territory, consolidated their wins. They expanded further. 

But when the [[Siagu Dominion]] heard about this from their spies, their leader decided to launch a full scale attack while the forces of the [[Sugbu Dominion]] and [[Maktan Dominion]] were weak. This started the [[Siagu vs Maktan War]].
