To the east of the [[Maktan Dominion]], there were three major and powerful dominions, [[Siagu Dominion]] (Takeda), [[Paragas Dominion]] (Hojo), and the [[Mandani Dominion]] (Uesugi). All three were vastly more powerful than the [[Maktan Dominion]]. The reason none of these three dominions marched west, steamrolling its way there is because if they take their army out of their territory, other armies could swoop in and carve up their territories. Now, Lapulapu can focus west because his eastern flank is secured by the [[Sugbu Dominion]], or at least a buffer region. This just left 2 dominions left in their way to the land of salvation, the Tasinulok (Azai) and the Bitunas (Saito).

Lapulapu Maktan and Tupas Sugbu tried making alliances. Tupas Sugbu married off his sister to the warlord of Tasinulok. 

Maktan starts marching and invading the Bitunas trees. But they're too strong to be taken down with might alone. Lapulapu Maktan calls onto his secret weapon, his greatest advisor, the babaylan [[Nayawa Maktan]]. After brainstorming, she forms plans. She sent out the men to act on her plans. Simultaneously, with bribes, threats, deals, and rewards, she makes the supporters and loyalists turn to their side. 

Although Butinas is still too far. They won't be able keep long campaigns sustainably, especially since they have to march all the way back to their own fortresses when it becomes night. They can also get easily shot at archers without large scale cover to protect their large scale army. The [[Maktan Dominion]] calls onto the [[Sugbu Dominion]] for help. The [[Sugbu Dominion]] managed to build a whole tree fortress, just slightly out of sight from the Bitunis. 

The [[Aklasi]] scouts and land surveyors also told [[Lapulapu Maktan]] about a certain blindspot they could exploit. Secretly, some of the men stationed themselves hidden in another tree. Lapulapu and his men who went on the mission to sneak in closer. They went under the windows and thrusted their swords through, taking out the archers. They hop in and they take over one of the tree fortresses of the dominion of Bitunas. They then use that bridge network to attack the other tree fortresses. The people of Bitunas are terrified, and when they look on the other side, they see thousands of marching soldiers on the forest floor, some even being former allies that's now betraying them. Some men just throw their weapons on the spot, some men thought it was a full scale invasion so they retreat. Lapulapu throws open the doors and the ladders, taking over the tree fortress network for the dominion of Maktan. Bitunas falls. The forces of the [[Maktan Dominion]] and [[Sugbu Dominion]] hit the walls of the tree fortresses to check on any tampering on it. This was the origin of the cultural practice of supporters and community members banging on the walls and stomping on the floors in a synchronized fashion when one of them acheives a victory.

Maktan and Sugbu can now march straight into the land of salvation. Both the [[Sugbu Dominion]] and [[Maktan Dominion]] armies sweeps West, smashing down the dominions that got in their way. Years later, they've arrived to the land of salvation, they finally see the crator for themselves.

They dug and dug. They also find lots of metals, they've melted those and were able to create more tools (including pick axes and shovels) and weapons from it. The [[Maktan Dominion]] became a raw metals powerhouse. They've given the [[Sugbu Dominion]] weapons and tools for free. They've also made an alliance with the [[Tasinulok Dominion]], even giving them replenishments, more tools, weapons to replace their old ones and to be able to arm more soldiers.

They mostly just melted the metals they've collected and stored them as ingots and bars for trade.

Lapulapu Maktan's dream of unifying all the warring dominions and stopping all the wars against each other is getting closer.

The [[Tasinulok Dominion]] however asked the [[Maktan Dominion]] for help, because an invasion of the forces of the [[Parisunggan Dominion]]. To get there, the [[Maktan Dominion]] has to cross the territory of the [[Tasinulok Dominion]] to get to the [[Parisunggan Dominion]]. After they marched their forces across, and reached the territory of the [[Tasinulok Dominion]], it started the [[Maktan and Sugbu vs Tasinulok and Parisunggan War]].


