But when the [[Siagu Dominion]] heard about this from their spies, their leader decided to launch a full scale attack while the forces of the [[Sugbu Dominion]] and [[Maktan Dominion]] were weak. This started the [[Siagu vs Maktan War]]. On their way, they took over the [[Kalagang Dominion]].

The [[Siagu Dominion]] was one of the biggest dominions in early pre-unified [[Alimyo]]. They've practially invented the [[Swinging Archers]] tactic and perfected the [[Zipline Charge]]. 

They march through, also invading smaller dominions that got in the way. They were going through the [[Sugbu Dominion]] territory to reach the battle they wanted, against the [[Maktan Dominion]]. When they got to the [[Sugbu Dominion]], the [[Sugbu Dominion]] soldiers tried their best to defend and stop the forces of the [[Siagu Dominion]] who were trampling in their territory. But they were no match, they smash into their lines, the [[Sugbu Dominion]] forces scatter and gets chased. The armies of the [[Sugbu Dominion]] dissintegrate. [[Tupas Sugbu]] managed to escape with only 8 left. They fled to their last tree fortress. 

The [[Siagu Dominion]] encircle and prepare to invade their last tree fortress. The leader, [[Tupas Sugbu]], was reported to be brought to a meeting by an unknown individual with strange clothes. Afterwards the planning with his men, he ordered the doors and gates be slammed open. He also made his men play loud music, while some where rusling the top of the trees as much as they could with robes and such, then suddenly stopping the rustling. The leader also took his clothes off and started dancing to the music, seemingly by himself. He then dispatched his elite [[Aklasi]] and they took many soldiers down. The leader of the [[Siagu Dominion]] thought that it was a trap, and was also scared that the other forces around his territory would swoop in and take over while his soldiers were away. They retreated back, and [[Tupas Sugbu]] was ecsatic because he managed to fend off and survive the attack. 

After some time after the [[Siagu Dominion]] retreat, they come back with their troops. [[Tupas Sugbu]] was still out and caught up with something else, but luckily one of his archers defending one of their fortresses manages to kill off the leader of the [[Siagu Dominion]]. He was then replaced by another leader [[Ayo Siagu]]. They continue to supress and start to move into one of the fortresses in the outer ring (where the inner ring is around the central ring, and the central ring is where the capital is). One of the people in, [[Likas Sugbu]] offered to go out and find relief asking for resources. He jumpes off the trees and evade the strings with bells mounted on them, that would signal to the [[Siagu Dominion]] that one of the poele inside the fortress escaped. He makes it undetected and shoots an arrow with red cloth attached to let his comrades know that he was succesfully able to go across. He then makes it to [[Lapulapu Maktan]] and [[Tupas Sugbu]] who were in a different war, asking for help and telling them that their fortress is being taken over. Imediately march, but [[Likas Sugbu]] knows that the fortress won't be able to hold before they get there, so he offers to go on ahead and notify his comrades about the incoming help. But this time, the [[Siagu Dominion]] switched up their stings with bells, and he was caught. He was offered a deal, the life of [[Likas Sugbu]] will be spared if he shouts that no help is coming; [[Likas Sugbu]] agrees. The next day, they raise him up tied, he shouts "[[Lapulapu Maktan]] and [[Tupas Sugbu]] are coming, hold firm". He was stabbed with dozens of spears then dies. 

The troops of the [[Sugbu Dominion]] and the [[Maktan Dominion]] arrive. The [[Siagu Dominion]] was out numbered 2 to 1. The [[Siagu Dominion]] uses their signature tactic: the [[Swinging Archers]] but they were countered by a tactic that [[Nayawa Maktan]] invented: the [[Moving Cover]]. When they reached their targets, they start cutting the trees down. When brave soldiers from the [[Siagu Dominion]] tried descending to the forest floor, they were met with archer fire, then were sliced down by the focres using the [[Moving Cover]] tactic. This is the origin of the phrase "move with your shield held high" comes from. 

Now, the forces that they was their strength, and their swinging archers for which they're known for are now scattered and dissintegrated. The survivors flee, and the [[Sugbu Dominion]] chase them in hot pursuit. The [[Siagu Dominion]] is now broken.

The [[Mandani Dominion]] was the last great dominion in the period. They've recently taken down the [[Paragas Dominion]]. The first encounter they had with the [[Sugbu Dominion]] when the forces of the [[Sugbu Dominion]] was in the way for merely passing by, they easily smashed through the [[Sugbu Dominion]] forces. And the leader of the [[Mandani Dominion]], [[Noan Mandani]] was about to launch an attack plan, one that could take out the entire [[Maktan Dominion]] once and for all, but he dies due to an [[Ethereal]], a [[Batibat]] (which was not yet known); he got killed by one because he forgot to have his [[Babaylan]] do the enchantments to take out the spirits in the wood before they use it in a fortress and sleep beside it. The leader of the [[Mandani Dominion]] dies without an heir, which fragmented them, and the allies of the [[Maktan Dominion]] swiftly took action under [[Lapulapu Maktan]] command and took it down. [[Lapulapu Maktan]] spared their lives however if they peacefully surrendered. 

Then came [[Zula Maktan's Betrayal War]]


