[[Lapulapu Maktan]] and [[Tupas Sugbu]] decided to take a vacation break after all the fighting, but a mesenger told him that one of the subordinate leaders of [[Lapulapu Maktan]] needed help with defending a fortress of the [[Sugbu Dominion]]. [[Lapulapu Maktan]] said that he could handle it for him to [[Tupas Sugbu]] and he went on his way. By the time [[Lapulapu Maktan]] and his forces went halfway, they rested in their tree fortresses. One the subordinate leaders of [[Lapulapu Maktan]], [[Zula Maktan]], told his soldiers to raid and destroy the forces in the tree fortress. He betrayed [[Lapulapu Maktan]]. Hundreds of forces of [[Lapulapu Maktan]] died and he made sure to save as many men as he can. Meanwhile, the forces of [[Zula Maktan]] had [[Tupas Sugbu]] and the small force he brought with him to vacation, encircled and and almost entirely slaughtered. His men told him to run while they hold out and make a distraction, long enough for [[Tupas Sugbu]] to run away before the men get caught and died. But one his way to escape, he was found, and killed on the spot.

Back to [[Lapulapu Maktan]], he is now stranded, far from his territory, and with small numbers left. He needed to get back to his territory. Luckily, one of his retainers was an [[Aklasi]], [[Sibol Maktan]]. [[Sibol Maktan]] could've easily betrayed [[Lapulapu Maktan]] and earned a high spot in the government of [[Zula Maktan]], but he didn't. He told [[Lapulapu Maktan]] of a secret passageway, short underground tunnels they the [[Aklasi]] use. They swoop off in the night, barely passing through the soldiers of [[Zula Maktan]]. First they went to an [[Aklasi]] training ground to get more [[Aklasi]] as his boyd gaurds, then they went to a neighboring dominion. They had bad blood, especially against [[Nayawa Maktan]], but [[Lapulapu Maktan]] sheilded them from the [[Sugbu Dominion]] when [[Tupas Sugbu]] wanted to invade and slaughter all the people in there. 

Back to [[Zula Maktan]], since now he held the land of salvation, he now felt like he could control the country. Operating on that notion, he started killing off those that could oppose him or disagreed with him. He slaughtered all the heirs to [[Lapulapu Maktan]] he could find, but he couldn't catch that many before they flee. 

With the help of [[Nayawa Maktan]] and his [[Aklasi]] body gaurds and his remaining men, [[Lapulapu Maktan]] makes it back. [[Zula Maktan]] didn't expect him to arrive this early and fast. The forces of [[Lapulapu Maktan]] slam into the forces of [[Zula Maktan]]. His forces were scattered by [[Lapulapu Maktan]], and [[Zula Maktan]] himself was killed in battle. 

Then the [[First Unification of the Warring Tree Dominions]]